you
hi folks Justin Hoffman here for Bass
Pro one source
today I want to talk about fish scent
more specifically fish attractant now
anytime you go online on Bass Pro comm
or go into one of their stores you'll
notice dozens and dozens of fish
attractant for sale now these can range
from spray bottles to gel in a two to
jelly and a squirt bottle and every
flavor and Mashable now a lot of people
ask me Justin do these actually work
well let's think about which freshwater
fish has the best smell out there any
guesses catfish is number one followed
closely by carp now bass and walleye
which is one of our most popular game
fish are better in the middle muskie and
pike way down at the bottom so why do we
use fish scent one of the main reasons
why we actually spray on fish attractant
is to actually mask negative smells now
what's a negative smell well for those
that's smoked nicotine tar on your
fingers once you touch it lure it's a
negative smell that actually repulses
gain fish so by using one of these fish
attractants it will actually mask that
negative odor and actually give a
pleasant odor to a fish which also acts
as an attractant sunscreen is another
one we all in the summertime rub
sunscreen on touch our hooks touch our
plastic baits again another very
negative smell an odor to a fish yeah by
using one of these attractants will
actually mask that neutralize it and
actually attract them in the end so I'm
going to give it a little demonstration
of what fish sense actually how they
work and what they are in the next
little headphone
there are two main fish attractions out
on the market those being liquid-based
like I have here or a gel base now what
are the advantages of a liquid base well
obviously being in spray bottle no mess
no fuss it's easy to store the boater
out on shore provides even coverage over
bait or lure and basically it comes in
every variety that you want now some
disadvantages of a spray bottle tape set
like this is windy conditions spray can
go everywhere get on you get on the boat
and oftentimes miss the lure the other
disadvantage of with the spray bottle
type scent is winter conditions it can
freeze now in terms of a gel scent what
are those advantages well it's easy to
put on a bait you can get areas that you
want to cover because you're going to
rub it in your hands and rub it on the
bait and it's actually going to last
longer a lot of the liquid based scents
will actually wash off once they hit the
water a major disadvantage of a gel
scent is getting out of your hands these
are stinky things so if you can live
with that
these are actually a great thing to use
now in terms of scent what should you
buy what I like to do is depending on
what prey that the fish that I'm
targeting actually feed on is to mimic
that so water that they're the
population is shad crayfish from fishing
for bass them stick to those now some of
the other great ones are a nice of
garlic but definitely crayfish shad
Nightcrawler are all proof and sense to
work so should you give fish attractants
to try this season absolutely the
biggest thing for me is a confidence
booster knowing that my baits and lures
actually smell good tastes good and fish
will hold onto the longer is a huge
boost to my fishing the other big thing
is knowing that they are actually
neutralizing those negative smells that
I unknowingly bring to the lake each day
another big bonus so anyways pick a few
bottles try the water-based dry the gel
base some different varieties and smells
and just see what works best on your
body of water and the species that you
target thanks for watching Bass Pro
OneSource I hope these tips are helpful
and we'll see out on the water